An election campaign is the
Strong moment of democracy.
She stages the different
visions of society, the nation,
of the economy and the environment,
language, values ​​and
arts, and in this case, of our
collective response to one of the most
formidable challenges of our history.
This time so, the campaign
election must also put in
Scene our compassion.

How not to fear
an effect that an event like the
Pandemic of Covid-19 which has
bedridden, sent to intensive care, or
removed life with so many of us, and

which clings to our daily lives,
does not come back in the future or
less close? How not to
Consider deep adaptations
and significant changes
to our economic model that
might not withstand another such
event and that is already facing
Challenge of climate change?

All aspects of our life
collective have been affected by
The pandemic. We must
outperform stronger, better prepared,
and determined to revive
reflections sometimes relayed at
second plan by the drama to which
Quebec has been confronted.

From the summer of 2020, the Bloc Québécois
has completed a wide consultation
economic circles,
social, cultural, arts and
communications, health thus
than care to bring to our people
the most fragile. He then published a
First crisis exit plan in
an economic perspective. Then
that the block is the only party on the
Federal scene who wants to influence
the action of the state without aspirating to form
a government it is remarkable
that we were the first to the
do, and for a long time the only ones.

Word of
chief

The electoral platform
2021 of the block aims to
give off the main axes
of our progress like
society, during and after
The terrible pandemic
who shakes us. »

Today, for reasons that
seem to proceed much more
the partisan and personal interest that of
public health or the common good,
Prime Minister of Canada, Justin
Trudeau, and the Liberal Party dive
Quebec and Canada in a
Malavised election campaign then
even they claim to wish
more severe measures to fight
virus. It's irresponsible. Nevertheless,
we have a duty to sign up
in the process of good faith
and in the perspective of us
Put in the service of Quebecers,
to be the voice exclusively
national in the federal parliament.

Prime Minister Trudeau
pretend to form a
majority government on the 20th
September. Quebeckers do not
do not want. They feel that
The obligation imposed on parties
to build consensus is
preferable, and many believe
that, in this context, the block
Québécois is in a position of force
To propose and get gains
For Quebec. I believe it too.

The Bloc Québécois also has the opportunity
to present its balance sheet of less
two years of mandate to
Quebecers. A balance sheet that contains
Frank gains: payment of
Compensation for farmers
injured by free trade treaties,
Aluminum protection threatened by
The same treaties, financial support
looking for forestry, laws on
Future protection of management
of the offer, the protection of the funds of
retirement, employment insurance of a
Duration of 50 weeks to patients
with serious illness, vote in
favor of the application of the law 101
companies and institutions under
federal jurisdiction and recognition,
Without condition, the nation
Quebec whose only language
official and common is French
are examples. Without the block,
Law C-10 on broadcasting is
would be proven an empty shell and

would not have been voted, the aid law
medical to die would not have been
modified and, for example, again, the
Government would not even have
Establish the implementation law
of its own budget containing
too low bonus,

more discriminatory, pension
paid to retirees. Finally, without the
Bloc Québécois, the House of
Canada's municipalities would not have
been forced to deal again
Quebecers with respect.



6
Political platform

Block 2021

Quebeckers sent a
clear message during the election of
2019: Removing the Bloc
Quebeckers to defend without
compromise their interests in front of a
Federal minority government.

The Bloc Québécois imposed Quebec in Ottawa. The order of the
Canadian Parliament Day has been seized by priorities and
The needs of Quebecers like never been for ten years.

During this brief term, the block pushed the House of
municipalities to make unprecedented progress
for Quebec identity. We got the observation
official by the House, Quebec registers in the
Constitution that it forms a nation and that its only language
official and common is French. We have acquired
a vote en favor the application of the language charter
French, Law 101, with jurisdictions
Federal. We made opponents of the law 21
on the institution of the state that had to use funds
federal public to make the trial of Quebec in court.

The return of the block has also allowed advances in
solidarity, value dear to the Quebec nation.
We got the support of the House of Commons
Without a conditional increase in health transfers,
an increase in the old-age pension for
every 65 years and over, as well as increased support and
more adequate for seriously ill people
By passing 50 weeks benefits of
Employment insurance disease. Block collaboration
allowed the adoption of the necessary aid reform
medical to die. We helped the repatriation of
More than 2,000 Quebeckers stuck abroad when the
pandemic struck. In short, the block has been at the service of its
fellow citizens, in all humanity and with empathy.

In the service
Quebeckers

Of course, everything is not perfect. The
seniors are still poorly supported
and those from 65 to 75 years have nothing to
Everything to confront the pandemic. The
essential health transfers for
Reduce the waiting of surgeries, offer
Reasonable work schedules
to nurses or recruit
Workers for long care
duration are always the object of a refusal
Obstinished Ottawa. We continue at
Read and hear comments
insulting on language and values
Quebec, when it's not being
downright racist treated then
that Quebec is certainly
The most welcoming society of
continent. We must persevere, therefore,
and we give them the means.

The electoral platform 2021 of the block
aims to clear the big
axes of our progress as a society,
during and after the terrible pandemic
who shakes us. We owe us
also prepare in the aftermath of
This crisis. Investments without
previous federal level during
last and upcoming months go
Create a collective indebtedness without
previous. Dangerous, even. They do not
will not come back twice. We need us
ensure, right away, that this money
which comes from our pockets to all
judiciously invested. The plan of

Liberals and Conservatives do not
does not offer such a guarantee. In
contrary. There is only to remember the
makes the two parties taken for
themselves important sums
who did not go to businesses
undermined by the crisis in agriculture,
in tourism, arts, in the
fisheries or the industrial sector.

I invite you to take
KNOWLEDGE OF THE PLATFORM
election of the Bloc Québec in the
context of the election 2021. It is
The fruit of a long and rigorous
reflection. She is also the fruit of our
Incessant shot, virtual and
physical, through all regions
of Quebec. The platform wears a
vision that reflects the confidence that the
Quebeckers have to themselves,
In the best, welcoming future,
generous, French, creating more
sustainable wealth from
Our resources and our energy
own, our innovation and
Our entrepreneurs, by financing
The dangerous oil in the West.

Every day of the campaign we
will give the opportunity to specify,
detail and enrich this vision of
our future, our economy,
Our values ​​and support for

seniors or the claim of our
part of the financing of health.

Every day of the campaign will offer
the opportunity to candidates and
candidates and myself
to wear the voice of Quebec towards
The vote of September 20th.

There is no election that is not
Not important, historical even.
Participate, grace, and be at
See you on September 20th!

We are the block. And like
You, we are ... Quebecois

Yves-François Blanchet
Head of the Bloc Québécois

Political platform
Block 2021

7

The platform is
A vision that reflects
the confidence that the
Quebecers have towards
themselves in
a better future,
welcoming, generous,
French, creating
more wealth
sustainable from our
resources and our
clean energy, our
innovation and our
entrepreneurs, than
funding the dangerous
Oil from the West.



8
Political platform

Block 2021

To finish
with the pandemic

The 32 elected officials of the block also have
Transposed into concrete actions
economic nationalism that
Characterizes Quebec. We have
obtained first historical support
of the House to the principle of a
Single tax report administered
by Quebec City. We cut off
Food for the Commission project
pan-Canadian values
movable, and the centralization of
financial market authorities to
Toronto at the expense of Montreal.
We rallied the opposition to the
need to protect agriculture
québécoISE putting an end to
Greers in supply management
in international agreements.
We negotiated and obtained
federally increased protection
for aluminum, second sector
export from Quebec, while
Canada had abandoned it in the
North American free trade. We

also obtained the support of
The room to make crates
retirement of workers,
priority credits in case of
Bankruptcy of a company. We have
proposed dozens of improvements
Federal aid programs
during the pandemic, especially in
What concerns loans offered
businesses and grant
payroll. Finally, we have
convinced the opposition to unite for
Require the end of the tax avoidance of
companies in tax havens.

These advances should not be
jeopardized by triggering
irresponsible with hasty elections
by Justin Trudeau. The block
Québécois will continue to defend
These issues without compromise and
tirelessly. Because they are
Dear, to us too. Because they
are part of who we are.

The solidarity of the Quebec nation
We have allowed us to enjoy a summer
Québécois differently more enjoyable
that the long months of sacrifices having it
preceded. But with the start of the school year
which points the tip of the nose; with the variant
Delta of Covid-19 prospecting; with the
Structural problems of our network
health care and our staff
caring out of breath, the pandemic
is not quite behind us. Of
many questions remain in
suspense and the Bloc Québécois will ensure
to get, for Quebeckers and
Quebeckers, the answers of which they
need. Canada's recovery
may dismiss Quebec's needs.

01. Health Transfers
We will never say enough: health is the priority
Quebeckers. The pandemic has more than ever
revealed the need to strengthen the Quebec network
health. Decreases - or ruptures - of
services this summer in our care centers, confirm
that the end of the pandemic will not solve at once
These consequences, particularly due to the sub-
Permanent Federal Health Financing.

Ottawa must do its fair share so that people
Suffers have access to quality care and
that our caregiver has reinforcement and
working conditions worthy of its dedication.

The federal government will have to increase transfers
healthy, unconditionally until cover 35% of the costs
health care, as unanimously require
Quebec and the provinces. The block account also
Support, by tax credit, home care.

Quebeckers expect a rise in transfers in
Health and the block makes its main battle horse.

Political platform
Block 2021

9

All along
the countryside
election, the block
Quebecers will present
offers
structuring
to make gains for
Quebec, Protect
and promote his
fundamental values
and his culture as well
only on one
creative green revival
wealth for
Each of its regions
Thanks to innovation
Quebec. here is
frame that will detail
The Bloc Québécois so
to prove to the nation
Quebec that she can
to trust him
to defend without
compromise and each
occasion his interests.



10
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

11

02. Living conditions of seniors
Quebeckers and Quebeckers care about the
quality of life to which the elders are entitled. These
were most affected by the pandemic and the less
adequately supported by the federal government. The Bloc Québécois
will propose a whole series of measures to enhance the
Standard of living of the builders and builders of Quebec
in each of our regions and support their power
purchase in a perspective of economic recovery.

It is the Bloc Québécois who raised in Parliament
Federal The urgency of increasing the old-age pension.
The increase in the monthly pension for all
Seniors, from 65 years old, remains unavoidable. the
Bloc Québécois rejects any attempt to create two
seniors classes by discrimincing them according to their age.

Finally, archaic and discriminatory provisions
must be abolished in the Federal Pensions Act.
Indeed, the spouses and spousal survivors of
pensioners, whose marriage or union of fact had
place after the age of 60, or after retirement, are
deprived of the deceased or deceased.

The Bloc Québécois will require the repeal of these provisions
discriminatory that affect the dignity of
seniors who worked, among other things, in the function
federal public or in the armed forces.

Quebeckers and Quebeckers want the
Elders take advantage of a retirement worthy of the efforts they have
consecrated all their lives to the fulfillment of their family,
of their community andtheir nation. We are.

03. International Leadership
At each stage of the pandemic, the management of
borders by the federal government has been marked
by improvisation, cowling and half-measures
Having for common result the failure of the containment
the propagation of COVID-19. Ottawa must finally
Recovers and offer a detailed plan for reopening
gradual borders, while variants
continue to threaten and vaccination does not
is not done at the same pace through the planet.

The Bloc Québécois will deposit a protocol of
management of possible pandemic threats.

The Bloc will propose that Canada exercises a role to
leadership from the World Organization of the
Health (WHO), in order to establish a concerted strategy of
Recognition of vaccines, mixed vaccination
and framing quarantines, taking into account
Developments of the pandemic in the different
country and the appearance of variants. The block proposes
Establishing a evidence verification mechanism
global vaccines for supervising trips
based on vaccines recognized by
public health authorities. Finally, the Bloc Québécois
wants Canada actively militates for the lifting of
patents on vaccines so that all countries of the world
Finally, finally be equipped to fight the pandemic.

04. Labor Shortage
The scarcity of labor in which our
entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs is widely amplified
by the pandemic, but it already existed and will not take
not fine with the withdrawal of sanitary measures.

The Bloc Québécois will offer a whole train of measures for
Fight against the shortage of labor. This will include
the suspension of the PCRE, while ensuring that it can
to be reactivated according to the intensity of future waves and that it
remains in effect for carefully targeted sectors
and the job categories for whom the raining remains
slow, for example the cultural sector or aeronautics.
The Bloc Québécois will also propose measures
encouraging the work of seniors with their expertise
invaluable, allowing seniors to low income from
work further without penalty and involving
indigenous nations, in addition to promoting the establishment
In the region newcomers and graduates.

05. Vaccine autonomy
The pandemic revealed the gaps of the industry
Canadian and Quebec pharmaceutical then
that we depend at 100% of foreign countries
For our vaccine supply.

The Bloc Québécois will propose a strategy of
vaccine production for autonomy purposes, including
in particular the establishment of necessary conditions
at the growth of a world-class industry.

Scientific advances in recent years have made
appear expensive drugs capable of
Several rare diseases. The Bloc Québécois will require
federally he reviews his strategy to lower the cost,
without compromising the quick access to these medicines for
Patients, nor the development of vaccine autonomy.
The Bloc Québécois will also ensure that the strategy
Federal on expensive drugs harmonizes
with the Quebec strategy on rare diseases.

06. Seasonal companies
Unique businesses in Quebec, like our cabins at
sugar, our festivals and seasonal companies that have
lost two entire seasons because of the health crisis,
deserve better targeted federal support that corresponds to
their reality. The Bloc Québécois will propose changes
Business aid programs to ensure
the vitality of all our models of SMEs.



Political platform
Block 2021

13

Quebecers and Quebeckers
form a nation.

A proud nation. Proud of its common and official language,
French. Proud of its history of resilience, creativity
and solidarity. Proud of its fundamental values ​​that
allow hospitality, sharing and equality, values ​​that
make Quebec a real land of opportunity for those
who live there, those who come there and those who will come there.

A nation that stands up, but above all, who stands
together. Together in the good times, whether it's
to celebrate New Year or our Summer Gorge of Flavors
unique from our local producers and the invigorating air of the
River. Together in the lowest moments, as to
through this sanitary crisis we hope so much the end.

The Bloc Québécois will support any effort resulting from
of the National Assembly to make
Quebec The only project manager of his choices
policies, according to its fundamental values.

The Bloc Québécois promoted on every occasion what
distinguishes Quebec and makes it unique to face the world.

The Bloc Québécois will oppose without compromise
any policy that has the effect of cropping the nation
in aCanadian perspective, to smell
its differences, reduce its influence or limit
his ability to make his own decisions.

Because we are the block.

07. French language
Quebeckers are worried about the future of the language
French in Quebec and are in solidarity with the challenges encountered
by the Franco-Canadian and Acadian communities.

The Government of Quebec, its National Assembly
and the Charter of the French language defend the
French as the only common and official language of the
Quebec, including in the workplace. The government
Federal and its Official Languages ​​Act defend
Bilingualism, especially in the workplace. However, the
bilingualism is historically well in Quebec,
It is French that is in decline and must be protected.

The Bloc Québécois will use all its resources
To ensure that the Official Languages ​​Act
federal no longer applies to private companies of the
Quebec. The Charter of the French Quebec language
must apply everywhere on our territory.

The Bloc Québécois will drop a bill to make
sufficient knowledge of French, a condition
To obtain citizenship from Quebec.

The Bloc Québécois will fight with the Acadians and the Franco-
To ensure that the reform of the law on
The official languages ​​seriously serves the capacity
of these communities to live and work in French.

08. Contestation of
 choice of Quebec
Quebec has recently made society choices
important aimed at reiterating the secularism of the Quebec state
as well as to promote and protect the French language. Those
choice belong to Quebecers and Quebeckers
only. The Bloc Québécois will impose in Parliament
Federal respect for decisions that do not concern it;
will require that no amount of public money is invested
in judicial disputes of Quebec laws;
and reiterate that the Court Challenges Program
of Canada must be entrusted to another organization than
The University of Ottawa, including institutional bias in
Quebec has been publicly demonstrated. The Bloc Québécois
will also support the right to self-determination of the
Quebec nation, one of its most fundamental choices,
by requiring the repeal of the referendum clarity law.

09. Solidarity with
 sick people
The Quebec nation protects vulnerable people
and clean no way to help
people with serious illnesses, like the
Cancer. These people and their families often need
more than 15 or even 26 weeks of
Financial support to recover health and return
at work. Ottawa abandoned their fate
most seriously affected by refusing
to increase the special benefits of the insurance
sickness up to the 50 weeks that are needed.

In memory and in honor of Emilie PERFACE,
activist for supporting people with
of cancer and mother, the Bloc Québécois
will have a respite until the special benefits of
Employment insurance will not reach 50 weeks.

Québécois
because

we are

12
Political platform

Block 2021



14
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

15

10. Freedom of expression
Quebeckers are not baffling nature, but
Our nation eventually leads its corporate debates, too
Can heeux be, thanks to the freedom of expression of
Everyone. The Bloc Québécois opposes censorship,
to the ban on corporate debate and restriction
subjects that can be addressed on the public square,
especially in academia, in the media and in
Legislative Assemblies. The Bloc Québécois continues
without reservation to condemn the hatred online, intimidation,
all types of hateful, defamatory, encouraging
to violence, or any other forms of speech that
constitute violations of the law and deserve to be
sanctioned in good and due form. The Bloc Québécois is
proud to promote respect, listening, empathy, civility
And intelligence in the use of freedom of expression.

11. The image of Quebec
The Bloc Québécois will not accept that the reputation of
The Quebec nation is tainted by attacks
slanders when we make our rights,
Our language and our choice of society. The Bloc Québécois
will oppose each occasion at Quebec Bashing
and denounces the accusations of racism unfairly and
frequently administered to a whole people, on the basis
False premises. The Bloc Québécois will launch a
Campaign of the image of Quebec in the
world and a diplomatic effort to ensure the presence
international of our nation. This campaign will involve
to assert the inalienable right to self-determination
Quebeckers as well as the positive role played by the
Thatspout in the world and that it could accentuate
As a country, when our nation will choose it.

12. Arts and Culture
The Bloc Québécois offers the repatriation of all
the powers in the field of culture and the creation of a
Quebec organization replaces the CRTC, because
We do not trust his culture to the neighboring nation.

Quebeckers are attached to their culture and hold on
promotion and protection. Canadians a little
less. This difference played a fundamental role in the
Faculty of Law C-10 aimed at better supervising culture
in the digital age and force the giants of the web to do
their share for the rise of Quebec art and media.

The Bloc Québécois is committed to improving and redeveloping this
inescapable reform for the future of creating
French language, including essential amendments
of the block that ensured the protection of Canadian content
and Quebec, "discovery" and the development of
Quebec arts and the production of Francophone content.
The Bloc Québécois will instead until won
the taxation of the revenues of the digital giants to
A rate of 3%, as France already does. The block
Québécois will impose on the multinationals of the web of
negotiations with Quebec content creators and
Canadians to establish equitable income sharing.

The Bloc undertakes to stand behind Quebec culture
In order to ensure the sustainability and predictability of programs
and cultural and tourist subsidies, while the
sector, his creators, his broadcasters and his little ones like
big events, will still undergo the consequences
of the pandemic during the next few years.

In addition, we will make sure that the written media
and regional part of this reform. the
Bloc Québécois will require, moreover, that the sums
perceived in taxes and taxes of digital giants
be redirected to a fund dedicated to the arts and
to the culture of Quebec and our media.

13. EQUALITY OF WOMEN
 and men
Equality between women and men is one of the
fundamental values ​​of the Quebec nation.

The Bloc Québécois is fighting for the preservation of achievements
women and notes that the best way
to avoid retreats is to move forward. The recovery of
The pandemic is an opportunity to implement a
inclusive revival putting the full contribution the
women's leadership in public decisions,
in business circles and in their communities.
The Bloc Québécois is resolutely feminist and
persist in his defense of women's rights
in matters of justice, work and equity.

The Bloc Québécois reiterates and defends the right
inalienable women to have their body.

The Bloc Québécois intends to end abandonment
by the employment insurance of young mothers when they
lose their job at the end of their parental leave.

The Bloc Québécois wants to encourage the participation of
women in politics by introducing a refund
higher to the political parties that elect a number
women corresponding to the parity area.

The Bloc Québécois will require Ottawa to contribute to
Quebec initiatives affecting support, the
training and networking for entrepreneurs.

14. Fight against the
 domestic violence
The Bloc Québécois deplores and denounces violence
towards women, spousal violence and
femicine, who know a sad and unacceptable
recrudescence during this pandemic.

The Bloc Québécois will offer better sentences
adapted and more severe for crimes related to the
family violence and will write down this type of crimes as
that factor aggravating in the Criminal Code, amending
Also the Young Offenders Act.

The Bloc Québécois will propose the holding of a
Inquiry Committee on Prevention,
Legislative framework and coercion of violence
family qualified "honor crimes".

The Bloc Québécois will require the federal government to contribute
financially in the efforts of the Government of Quebec
in terms of violence prevention, including
As for the study of establishment of a specialized court
regarding sexual crimes and spousal violence.



16
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

17

17. Nation relations to nation
The Quebec nation has always sought to maintain
Nation relations to nation with communities
indigenous. For decades, the Bloc Québécois
demonstrated that he is an ally of indigenous peoples.
He will always act accordingly, in respect
their right inherent in self-determination.

In five years, the Indian Act will celebrate its 150th
birthday. The Bloc Québécois wants Never
have to emphasize 150 years of racism. That's why the
Bloc Québécois aspires to render this law inoperative.

The Bloc Québécois will work with the nations
offendHTONES on the federal scene to strengthen and
guarantee their inherent rights. In concert with peoples
Aboriginal people, he will ensure that the federal government
fully applies the United Nations Declaration
on the rights of indigenous peoples in its jurisdictions.

Ultimately, this approach aims
The abolition of the Indian Act.

We believe that the application of the right to
internal self-determination, as well as inherent right
Aboriginal nations with self-government,
are the keys that will allow full fulfillment
from each of them. The deployment must be accelerated
of the United Nations Declaration to
Transform reality into the field. Thus, the block
Québécois proposes to renovate the settlement policy
overall background claims, at the same time
to account for the declaration, but also in
The purpose of creating an independent entity that would treat
These claims. Such an organism would allow
speed up the processing of applications and
end to the conflict of interest situation in which
This policy places the federal government.

Each nation that will want to exercise its right to
self-government will find in the
Block, an ally. The Bloc will promote co-management of
resources with indigenous peoples.

The last years have aroused a lot of hope for
Aboriginal people, but also big disappointments.
Sixteen years after the first report of the auditor
General and six years after promising access to water
drinking for all indigenous communities
As early as 2021, Canada has failed once again.

The liberal solution to solve systemic problems
often limits to announcing great sums
money, sometimes regardless of the real needs of peoples
indigenous. Too often, this money does not go
directly in the communities that need it
And sleeps in the chests of Ottawa. Too often, the
Governments that followed one another were slow to act.
Too often, they only hasten to a crisis.

The Bloc Québécois will ensure that nations
Aboriginal people receive their due and put pressure
on the federal government to realize calls
the action of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.

Finally, in the wake of the unanimous motion elaborated
with the aboriginal representatives we have
adopted during the last national day of
indigenous peoples, we will maintain the pressure
on the federal government for communities
have all the resources needed to lift the
Sailing on the historical reality of Aboriginal residential schools
And to compel churches to open their archives.

The Bloc Québécois will also ensure the
predictability and sustainability of
programs allowing the healing of victims
residential schools such as the support program
healthy specially designed for this purpose.

15. Tax justice
All must do their fair share in Quebec; including
Large companies and the most fortunate.

The Bloc Québécois will continue its efforts to end
The tax avoidance of large companies in paradise
tax, which is currently bonded by Ottawa.

While public finances have recorded
colossal deficits during the pandemic, the
The richest individuals have become more enriched.
The Bloc Québécois proposes to create a tax
additional special on big fortunes.

16. Ethics
The Quebec nation is rough justice. The
Quebecers and Quebeckers tolerate poorly those who have
The arrogance of assuming that the rules do not apply
to them and who believe meritoires of a favor process.

Quebeckers therefore want their elected officials
Proof of exemplary probity. The Prime Minister
outgoing was sentenced twice by the Commissioner
conflicts of interest and ethics, a first history,
without however undergoing a consequence. In parallel,
Great parties funding practices under
Form of private parties at $ 1,500 the entrance, with access
privileged to decision-makers, continue to crack down at the federal government.
This culture based on opaque networking and
the links with the big donors even ties
to the process of appointing judges, whereas
Liberals appoint disproportionately
their relatives and donors to the judiciary.

The Bloc Québécois will give teeth and power
punitive at the Commissioner of Conflicts of Interest and
Ethics. We will also redresh a bill
To reinstate the public funding of the parties
policies to eliminate any impression or possibility
coping. We will continue to campaign for a
Impartial process of appointment of judges.

The Bloc Québécois recalls that it is the only party
not to have requested and received the grant
salariathe, sums for companies
and community organizations and not
to bail out the electoral coffers of politicians.
The Bloc Québécois will again require the
Liberals, the Conservatives, the NDP and the Green Party
reimburse each money from taxpayers money
that they have pocketed with the wage grant.



18
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

19

18. Support for workers
Quebec workers pay their fair share of
contributions in the hope of being supported if a misfortune
had to occur. However, the pandemic revealed the weakness
Canadian social net while Ottawa had to invent
of all parts the PCU to cover the inability of
Employment insurance to protect workers.

The Bloc Québécois will propose a global reform of
Employment insurance that will protect all workers and who
will take into account the increasingly unavoidable realities
self-employed or special status workers, as well as
Seasonal work. This reform will also fulfill
permanently the black hole in employment insurance.

We will also redresh a bill to ensure us
that workers under federal jurisdiction have
same rights as the others, especially by prohibiting
the use of strike breakers and allowing the
Preventive withdrawal with salary of future moms.

We will continue our efforts to make
Retirement crates, priority credits
In case of bankruptcy of a company.

19. Hosting company
Quebec is a land of welcome: one of the few
real lands of opportunities where each talent
In his place and where we leave no one behind. the
Bloc Québécois wants to make every new
Arriving in Quebec, a success story.

The Bloc Québécois will propose a train of measures for
Reduce unacceptable federal deadlines in treatment
requests for permanent residence and immigration,
especially to accelerate the treatment of
requests for permanent residence from Quebec,
who take four to five times more time to be
treated by the federal government than in the rest of Canada.

We will require the transfer of the program of
Temporary foreign workers in Quebec,
Since Ottawa refuses to manage it properly,
In addition to facilitating the hiring of these workers.

The harmonious integration of newcomers and
The fight against racism are essential conditions for
Equality of opportunity that characterizes the Quebec nation.
The Bloc Québécois proposes that the Government
Federal sets the example by resorting to curriculum
anonymous vitae within its public service so
to fight against discrimination on hiring.

The Bloc Québécois will require repealing the agreement on the
Third countries safe to end once and for all
Irregular crossings at the Canada
American, allowing a more ordered reception
migrants. Above all, the end of the agreement will put a
term to the imbalance that affects Quebec and its
borders, by which an overwhelming majority of
Asylum seekers enroll in Canada.

The Bloc Québécois proposes that Quebec be a land
privileged host for French-language refugees.

Finally, because the Canadian model of multiculturalism
Night at the integration of newcomers to society
Quebec, the Bloc Québécois will table a bill
To exclude Quebec from the Multiculturalism Act
In order to allow Quebec to choose your own model.

20. A roof for everyone
The Bloc Québécois proposes that Ottawa reinvested
gradually in social, community housing and
really affordable until reaching 1% of its income
Total annuals to ensure constant financing
and predictable rather than in virtue of punctual agreements.

The Bloc Québécois proposes that all the properties
surplus federals are devoted
Priority to housing development
social, community and very affordable in order to
help reduce the housing crisis.

The Bloc Québécois will propose a tax on
real estate speculation to counter
The artificial rise in markets.

The Bloc Québécois will propose a reform of the
Access to property regime to take into account
different realities of Quebec households and
Family situations more and more diversified.

The Bloc Québécois proposes that the federal government proceed to a
Financial redevelopment of the different programs
arising from the national housing strategy
to create an acquisition fund. The establishment of
This fund would allow cooperatives and NPOs
to acquire housing buildings currently
accessible in the private market, preserve their
affordable and making accommodation
social, community and very affordable.

The Bloc Québécois will ensure that Quebec Régéivy
its fair share of financing, unconditional,
Federal roaming programs, all
asking for permanent amounts
allocated in the last year during the pandemic.

21. International relations
In terms of international relations, Quebec has
For official policy The Doctrine Gérin-Lajoie. This one
states that all that is about the competence of Quebec
on its territory is the jurisdiction of Quebec in the
world. This is the case in education and culture.

The Bloc Québécois will require Quebec to lead
itself all its international relations, including the
Conclusion of treaties, in its fields of competence.
So, we propose a process of representation
international like the Belgian model, what would
so that Canada should obtain consent
From Quebec before taking a position in an issue
under his skills, as in UNESCO.

The Bloc Québécois will require Canada to cease the sale
of any military material in Saudi Arabia while he
is now known that the Saudi regime uses it
against the civilian population, especially in Yemen.



20
Political platform

Block 2021

Québécois
because
we want

22. A Pacific Society
The proliferation of firearms must be contained,
and this, in the respect of hunters and athletes,
whose legitimate activities involve rules
security, storage and transport.

The Bloc Québécois will require control
increased circulation of weapons and parts
illegal weapons at borders.

We will require that the redemption program
assault weapons be mandatory, otherwise it
becomes useless, and that the federal government modifies laws
In order to define what constitutes a weapon of assault
Rather than ban the models on a case-by-case basis.

We also propose that since the
federal lacks seriousness in controlling
handguns, which he transfers the entire of this
Responsibility and sums associated with Quebec
to avoid overwhelming municipalities.

These tightenings are essential for security
of our communities. We owe them to the victims
criminal acts such as feminicide of Polytechnique.

23. Make our choices
Quebeckers are masters at home. They do not need
of the federal government to dictate to them what can
Serve tax money they pay every year.

The Bloc Québécois will redefile a bill offering
In Quebec an automatic compensation right
with full compensation when Ottawa creates
Federal programs in the fields of
exclusive competence of Quebec, or seeks to
Match these money transfers of conditions.

The Bloc Québécois estimates that the function must be abolished
Governor General. Nevertheless, the appointment
of a person not speaking French at this
post is revealing the loss of influence of
The French language in Canada and the
least that is granted to this language
official. This choice also demonstrates the lack
of the federal government's credibility in its
willingness to protect and promote French.

More than ever, it's on the roads of Quebec that summer
was held. Many of us have been dazzled
by the meeting of the river and the ocean in Gaspésie, the
Escarpments of the fjord or the landscapes of the North Shore.
Others filled with the edge of the wind of the islands or
The tranquility of the boreal forest. Many have benefited from
good weather to embark on the welcoming waters
Lakes of the Estrie or beaches of our inland sea
Lake Saint-Jean. And others felt the call of our
metropolis and our national capital, with their offers
unbeatable cultural and their evenings with a thousand possible.

And everywhere, along all these roads, we cross
Quebeckers who shake their area and who live their
riches. Restaurateurs, hotel and innkeeper
Ready to make us discover their corner of country. From
farmers, fishermen and other craftsmen, proud of us
Offer unique products, irreproachable quality.
Researchers involving our expertise,
Our clean energy and renewable resources in

Quest for a greener future and prosperous for Quebec.
Pioneers aimed at developing the aerospace of
Tomorrow, artificial intelligence at the cutting edge, the
Ecological technologies or sustainable exploitation
From our forest to consolidate our place within
Great innovative nations in the world. As much
areas where Quebec is a pole with a
Enviable expertise that the federal government must
recognize and support generously, rather than
Sprinkle grants from coast to coast to coast. All
creators in their own way, both protectors of our
know-how and guarantors of our collective future.

Quebecers and Quebeckers: it's from themand their family it's when the block
Québécois speaks of ecological transition,
Economic nationalism and development
regional; When we talk about our future.

Political platform
Block 2021

21



22
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

23

 24. Fight for changes
 climatic
For years, scientists have sounded the alarm.
"It's midnight less one in the field of warming
climate, "they told us. Today it's midnight
and five. The most recent IPCC report confirms that
certain changes generated by the release of
Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are irreversible.
The climate emergency has become a climate crisis.

Canada, as the fourth producer in
Importance of oil in the world, has a responsibility
Singular in climate field. The Carbon Target
In 2050 is incompatible with the increase plans
Petroleum and gas production until 2045.
Canada must accelerate its energy transition.

Historical and overwhelming heat waves
for seniors; forest fires; flooding ; the
unusual weather cocktails that upset our
Farmers: the effects of climate change
are already heavily felt in Quebec.

The Bloc Québécois will amend the law on the
Carbonutality to insert the reduction targets
Greenhouse gas from the Canadian government
for 2030 to force it to respect them.

The Bloc Québécois will require a climate test for the whole
federal policies to measure the impact
on the environment and climate change
all government decisions.

In connection with this climate test, the Bloc Québécois offers
that the federal government imposes environmental criteria
rigorous in the granting of public contracts.

We will defend the environmental sovereignty of the
Quebec so that the stricter laws of Quebec and the
municipal regulations apply to our territory.

We propose the establishment of an equalization
to impose the polluter pays principle and
to reward the efforts of the provinces fighting
Indeed against climate change.

The Bloc Québécois will propose federal funding
To counter the erosion of the banks, both the one caused
by climate change, as the resulting
traffic on the river and the seaway.

25. Ecological transition
The Bloc Québécois will support the transition to
green energies by offering investments
massive in ecological innovation, changes
technologies as well as research and development
in all regions of Quebec. The Bloc Québécois
wishes to propel a creative green recovery of
Wealth by Quebec entrepreneurial fabric,
supported by our know-how and our innovation.

The Bloc Québécois will require the end again
subsidies to fossil energies, such as the
Canada has been rehearsal since 2009.

The Bloc Québécois proposes to redirect the share
Quebec of the amounts invested in energies
fossils to the own energies of Quebec and our
research centers, while maintaining funding
necessary for the transition out of fossil energies
In Western Canada. Canada borrows the way
inverse: not only the energy subsidies
fossils have not diminished under the Liberals, they
have increased beyond the Stephen Harper era!

The Bloc Québécois will oppose the establishment of a
pan-Canadian energy corridor encroaching on
Quebec territory, whether it is an oil pipeline
or electricity lines, bypassing
or competing with Hydro-Québec.

The Bloc Québécois will require the government
federally says no new project of
transport of interprovincial oil, whether
oil pipelines for export or
Intensification of rail transport.

The Bloc Québécois will propose that as a first
form of compensation for the financing of
Muskrat Falls and the unfair competition of land-
New against Hydro-Québec, the TPS ceases to be perceived
on the Hydro-Québec invoices of households.

The Bloc Québécois will deposit a zero emission
To compel car dealers to hold
A suitable inventory of electric vehicles so
Whether accessible for consumers.

The Bloc Québécois requires the federal government to cease to finance
Ontario competitors in Quebec and instead contributes to
The Quebec electricity sector as well as the project to make
Quebec "The battery of North America". The future passes
by the financing of innovative SMEs in Quebec and not
Not by the multinationals of the automobile in Ontario.

The Bloc Québécois proposes that the fleet of
federal government vehicles are composed
100% zero emission vehicles.

The Bloc QuébéCOIS will require the federal saber the
Canadian Hydrogen Strategy Ineffective
and pollutant, to instead contribute financially
to the development and promotion of the sector
Hydro-Québec's green hydrogen.

The Bloc Québécois will oppose the development of the
nuclear, including small modular reactors, and
any risk for Quebec of waste contamination
Nuclear projects imply projects like the dump
Chalk River, along the Ottawa River.

The Bloc Québécois proposes to end the
Project to enlargement of the Trans Mountain pipeline
and will oppose any export project of
oil from the oil sands.

The Bloc Québécois wishes to put a brake on the culture
disposable by submitting a bill to prevent
The programmed obsolescence. He will have
effect of ensuring that the Patent Act and the Act
on copyright can not be invoked for
Prevent repair of recoverable products.



24
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

25

26. Economic nationalism
Quebec's economy is open to the world and
to foreign investment. On the other hand, when a
foreign multinational hand hands on a business
from home, Quebec loses a decision lever for
even a basin of expertise and good jobs. the
economic destiny of Quebec can not, nor should, be
fully at the mercy of decisions taken abroad,
particularly in our strategic sectors and
Our state-of-the-art sectors. Indeed, the pandemic has revealed
The importance of preserving our businesses and our
production capacity. The Bloc Québécois will pursue
a policy of economic nationalism in a
perspective of resilience and autonomy, in order to ensure
the maintenance and development of our companies.

This will involve tightening control of
Foreign investments to better protect florets
of our economy against controls; of
Fill out the project to focus in Toronto
Framing in the financial sector, essential to maintaining
Montreal financial center and preservation
head seats that depend on it; to develop
A procurement policy that promotes SMEs
and takes into account the environmental impacts of
Government purchases; and develop a strategy
industrial that promotes some self-sufficiency
in the essential and strategic fields.

Links between Quebec, Canada and the
United States form our business relations,
the closest border and diplomatic.
Our savings are integrated.

The economic recovery plan presented by the President
American offers interesting opportunities for our
exporting companies, but the tightening of
provisions of the law "Buy American", proposed by
Joe Biden, however, could harm our ambitions.

The Bloc Québécois will expect the government
Federal Negotiate An Exemption for Businesses
from here, in the field of green energies and
Low carbon technologies.

The federal government must also stand up
in front of the United States in any commercial conflict
involving our agriculture, our industry of
lumber, our aluminum or any other
undue charge against the Quebec economy.

27. Agriculture and agri-food
The agriculture model on the human scale of
Quebec stands out in a northern industrial world
american where the productive, but peaceful occupation,
of the territory is no longer part of the reflection.

The Bloc Québécois will redefile a bill for
integrally protecting the supply management in the
Future free trade agreements. We will look at
also on the increase in slaughter capacity,
While market concentration and gaps
Current policies lead to travel
endless for animals, sometimes even their
Euthanasia, and food waste. We will push
the federal government to recognize the multifunctionality of
farmers in its financial support
to recognize the contribution of small producers.

The Bloc Québécois will ensure that farmers and
Transformers are fully offset
For breaches in the management of the offer contained
In free trade agreements with Europe,
Pacific zone and North America.

The Bloc Québécois will propose to encourage small
Québec distillers from all regions and their
unique products, reducing the excise tax on
alcohol according to the volume of production of companies,
Inspired by what Quebec offers microbreweries.

28. Healthy eating
Quebeckers want the products they are preparing
and put in the plates of their family are the
cooler and healthiest. That's why the decision
from Health Canada, Reversedas a result of pressures
Bloc Québécois policies, to increase the quantity
pesticides, including glyphosate, in some
types of food put Quebec angry.

The Bloc Québécois strongly denounces the to-Plat-
federal ventry in front of the multinationals of
pesticides and is wary of the decision to postpone
the increase in pesticide residues at 2022, a
Evident attempt to stifle the case before the election.

In the light of this scandal, the Bloc Québécois
proposes an investigation of links and potential
Copying between Health Canada and multinationals
Pesticides, like Bayer and Syngenta.

The Bloc Québécois reiterates that we must try to eliminate
pesticides of the neonicotinoid family and
not to increase it. We repeat
that we need to invest $ 300 million in searching for a
alternative solution and in the accompaniment
agricultural producers during the transition.

The Bloc Québécois also offers the labeling of
GMO, made all the more relevant with the appearance
In our grocery stores of a transgenic salmon, opening
The door to genetically modified meat.

The Bloc will require a federal level a traceability plan
products from the sea of ​​the ship on the plate, so
to adequately inform consumers, promote
Local purchase and fight against illegal fishing.



26
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

27

29. Aerospace
Of all countries with an aerospace industry, the
Canada is the only one not to have a policy allowing
to ensure its development. Yet the Greater Region
Montreal is one of the only three on the planet
where one can develop and build an airplane from A to Z.
On the eve of the elections, after the Bloc Québécois
it hell, the federal government improvised a
announcement and unlocked funds, but still has
no policy to support the whole
of the ecosystem. The block will insist on spin-offs
substantial industrial measures arising from military purchases;
foreseeable and sustainable support for research and
development to conceive and build
at home the eco-energy aircraft of tomorrow and
to develop the aircraft recycling sector; and of
Accompaniment allowing some 200 SMEs of
the aerospace to pass through the current crisis of the
aviation sector and to fit into the projects of
development that will ensure the sustainability of the sector.

30. Forest industry
The forest covers more than half of Quebec.
Nearly 60,000 Quebeckers owe them their job. Corn
The forest is the poor parent in investments
federal on natural resources.

The Bloc Québécois offers a maximization plan
the potential of the Quebec forest, having for purposes
and effects local transformation, development
technological innovations and the rise of the
productivity in a context of labor shortage
. The plan proposed by the Bloc Québécois will allow
also reduce the vulnerability of Quebec to
commercial treaties and reduce pressure on
the primary resource by increasing the diversity of
jobs, especially through the transformation as well as
The creation of exportable green technologies.

31. Clean aluminum
The Bloc Québécois will support development
Quebec aluminum, the greenest in the world.
The federal government must finance a fund
Support for processing in Quebec Aluminum
Québécois, in particular by reinvesting the whole
Amounts perceived in counter-tariffs in conflict
free trade with the United States in 2018-2019.

32. Infrastructure
Quebeckers expect a high level of services
and quality facilities where they reside. The
Federal Infrastructure Investments
are the source of incessant conflicts that delay the
Establishment of municipal projects.

The Bloc Québécois therefore requires the transfer
unconditionally in Quebec of any sum
Federal dedicated to infrastructure.

Quebec will prioritize its own
projects according to its own priorities.

The Bloc Québécois supports the train to Grande
Frequency Toronto-Quebec through three-
Rivers, that the Liberals promise each
Election since 2015 without any progress
in the realization of this structuring project.



28
Political platform

Block 2021
Political platform
Block 2021

29

33. Enhancement of the territory
In addition to offering unparalleled quality of life, the regions of the
Québec have underestimated and underfunded potential by
The federal government. The Bloc Québécois will support the
economic development of each region of Quebec.

In order to solve the difficulties of access to our regions which
curb their growth, complicate development
economic and dissuades families to settle there, the
Bloc Québécois will propose a pLAN to get off the
regions, including support for a Quebec alternative to
Air Canada outside major centers, the obligation for air
Canada to offer acceptable services in the meantime, the
Redeem with the rail network and the increase
VIA Rail services. We will require more than Ottawa
finally go ahead with the project of train to Grande
frequency, after three elections of liberal promises
Without a single shovel of earth or concrete action.

The Bloc Québécois offers to decentralize the function
federal public, largely concentrated in the region
Ottawa, to create job poles in the region. the
BLOC proposes to facilitate the work in the region through
Tax credits for graduates and immigrants
who will choose to settle outside the major centers.
The Bloc Québécois offers to perpetuate the deduction
teleworking tax established during the pandemic.

The Bloc Québécois proposes to regionalize the
Regional development programs by decentralizing
Economic Development Canada and confident
amounts to regional funds that will allow
to the regions of managing autonomously, their
Priorities. Decisions about the future of our
Regions should not get from Ottawa.

34. Local purchase
These are our main arteries that characterize our
towns and villages and the first chef, our shops
local. But while these were forced
to close, then open with reduced capacity in
because of the health crisis, multinationals
foreigners garnerate record profits.

The Bloc Québécois will table a strategy
To support local purchase and businesses
from home, face of our main streets and
essential systems of the regional economy.

The Bloc will include improving support
to the digital transition of companies, a fees of
lower credit cards for transactions in
line and additional deadlines to repay
Without penalty the loans contracted during the pandemic.

35. Single tax report
Quebeckers are the only ones to fill two statements
income each year, a duplication of
Time, bureaucracy and preventable costs.

The Bloc Québécois will redefile a bill for
Obligate Ottawa to initiate negotiations with the
Quebec to entrust it with the administration of a report
single tax. In addition to saving them
households and companies, this measure will allow
terminate an administrative duplication, while
conferred in Quebec additional powers
to act against the use of tax havens.

36. Naval Industry
Quebec relies on the largest project of
Naval construction in Canada, Best in America
From the North According to the Lloyd's List: Site Davie, in Lévis.
But the share of the lion of construction contracts of
Ships from Canada is entrusted to construction sites of
British Columbia and Nova Scotia
crew under deadlines. A throat of more than 100
billion $ in federal contracts, Davie has always
not received the tenth, even if it represents 50% of
Canada's shipbuilding capacity.

The Bloc Québécois offers a complete revision
naval strategy, a colossal federal failure, so
to arrive at a new plan that will include Davie as
partner at the height of its production capacity.

37. Saint-Laurent
The federal government neglects river Quebec and
maritime. The Bloc Québécois proposes that the federally returns
immediately in state the port facilities, so
to avoid service breaks in the fishing season
Like Cap-aux-Meules last spring. The block
Quebec offers the enlargement of the scope of the Fund
fisheries so that money can be used for a plus
great diversity of projects, like the winter park
Grande River. The Bloc Québécois will propose a
Strategy for Development and Diversification
Trade in Quebec fishery products.

38. Veterans
The federal government dropped its
veterans. Not only the government has a backlog
growing requests for unsoployed benefits,
But Francophones are systematically
disadvantaged and have to wait two to three
times longer than Anglophones for
receive benefits to which they are entitled.

The veterans' ombudsman had determined that the
Median treatment time for Francophones
was 52 weeks, against 19 for Anglophones.

The Bloc Québécois proposes to follow the recommendations
the parliamentary director of the budget to hire
Sufficient staff to eliminate arrears and make
so that Francophone veterans receive
their services as soon as possible.